Laws of the Evening Prayer (Ma’ariv)
And when the night arrives, one should pray the evening prayer (Ma’ariv) and this prayer is not obligatory, as it was only instituted corresponding to the limbs and fats of the afternoon daily offering that were not consumed during the day, which are offered and burned throughout the night. And nevertheless, there is a mitzvah to daven Maariv, and one should not neglect it. Rav Alfasi (the Rif) writes that nowadays it has been established as obligatory and must not be neglected at all.
Its time is after the recitation of the evening Kriyat Shema. This is not in accordance with Rabbi Yehoshua ben Levi, who held that the prayers were instituted between the recitations of Shema—meaning, in the morning one recites Shema and then prays, while in the evening one prays and then recites Shema. Rather, it follows Rabbi Yochanan, who said: “Who is destined for the World to Come? One who connects redemption directly to prayer,” and this applies even at night. Therefore, the time for Ma’ariv is after Shema and its blessings.
And from when is the time for the evening Shema? As we learn in the Mishnah: “From the time the Cohanim enter to eat their terumah,” which is at nightfall (the appearance of the stars). This is what the Rif writes, and so too Rav Paltoi writes that one who recites Shema before seeing three stars if he intends to fulfill his obligation then, he does not fulfill his obligation, and he must repeat it and pray. But if he did not intend to fulfill his obligation and he made a mistake and he prayed, he shouldn't go back and pray again. And Rav Amram also writes like this.
And even if one recited Shema during twilight (which is of doubtful status, day or night), its says in the Jerusalem Talmud states that he must go back and read it again. And similarly Rashi explains that its time is from the emergence of the stars, and he writes that when we recite Shema in the synagogue, we do not fulfill our obligation with it; rather, we fulfill it through what we recite before going to bed. And when we say it in the synagogue it is only in order to begin the prayer in a framework of words of Torah.
And Rav Amram also writes that the essential recitation by which one fulfills his obligation is the one recited before going to bed, and therefore he wrote that one must recite the blessing “Blessed are You… who commanded us concerning the recitation of Kriyat Shema” before its recitation before bed.
Rabbeinu Tam, however, writes, that certainly the synagogue recitation is the primary one, since it is recited with its blessings. As for the fact that it is recited before nightfall, this is because we follow Rabbi Yehuda, who holds that the time for the afternoon prayer extends only until Plag HaMincha (one and a quarter hours before nightfall). From that point onward it is considered night with respect to the afternoon prayer, and the same applies to Shema: from that point onward is its time. The Avi HaEzri writes similarly, reasoning that since the Sages did not give a specific starting time for the evening prayer, it follows that when the time for Mincha ends, the time for Ma’ariv begins.
My father, of blessed memory, challenged Rabbeinu Tam’s view: Even if the time for Mincha ends at Plag Hamincha because it corresponds to the daily offering, whose time extended only until Plag HaMincha, Shema depends on the time of lying down (when people go to bed), and it is not appropriate to recite it then (right after Plag HaMincha), since it is not yet the time when people lie down.
Rabbi Yitzchak (the R"i) explains that in order to justify the custom, we rely on the other Tannaim mentioned in the baraissa, who advance the time of Shema to before nightfall—even though the halacha does not follow Rabbi Eliezer, who says it begins from when the day is sanctified on Friday evening, who argues against Rabbi Yehoshua who says its time starts when the Cohanim go to eat their Terumah, nor does the Halacha follow Rabbi Meir against Rabbi Yehuda. Nevertheless, regarding prayer they were lenient. Additionally, due to practical necessity this custom developed to recite the Shema before the emergence of the stars: the congregation gathers for Mincha, and if they were not to recite Shema and pray Ma’ariv until nightfall, everyone would go home and it would be difficult to reconvene, resulting in a loss of communal prayer. Therefore, they relied on those Tannaim of the baraissa who held that it could be read before the the emergence of the stars, even though ideally Shema should not be recited before nightfall, in accordance with the plain ruling of the Mishnah.
And nevetheless, even according to Rabbi Yitzchak, however, one should not recite it too early while it is still daytime, since the difference between the timeframes of the Mishnah and the baraissa is veyr minimal.
They asked Rabbeinu Hai Gaon: regarding a congregation that recites Shema and prays before nightfall, which is preferable: should one pray with them and delay Shema until nightfall, or should one wait until nightfall and pray alone in order to connect redemption to prayer? He answered: it is better to pray with them in order to pray with the community, provided it is from Plag HaMincha and onward, and then wait to recite Shema at its proper time (with its blessings, and if one prays once with the congregation voluntarily and the second prayer is obligatory, this is acceptable.
And in regards to the end time of Shema: the Mishnah teaches that it extends until the end of the first watch, which is one-third of the night, this is the opinion of Rabbi Eliezer. The Sages say until midnight. Rabban Gamliel says until dawn. The halacha follows Rabban Gamliel, and even ideally one may wait until dawn to recite it.
Nevertheless, one may not eat or sleep until he has recited it, as it is taught: A person should not come in from the field in the evening and say, “I will eat a little, sleep a little, and then recite Shema and pray,” lest sleep overtake him and he sleep the entire night. Rather, when a person comes in from the field, he should enter the synagogue or the study hall; if he is accustomed to reading Scripture, he should read; if he is accustomed to studying Mishnah, he should study; then he should recite Shema and pray, and afterward eat his bread. Anyone who transgresses the words of the Sages is liable to death.
Therefore once the time for Shema has arrived, it is forbidden to establish a meal before praying.
And if one was prevented and did not recite Shema until dawn, he may still recite it until sunrise. However, if he recites it after dawn, he should not say the blessing םכ “Hashkiveinu,” since it is no longer the time for lying down.
And the Ritz Gaitz explains that one must still recite the two blessings before and the two after Shema, rather one should not say the standard text of that blessing; rather, he should begin, “Grant us wise counsel from before You.” (only leaving out the first word of the "Hashkiveinu" Bracha, which is "Hashkiveinu" meaning when we lie down.) My father, of blessed memory, writes that one should not recite the blessing of Hashkiveinu at all in that case.