In the morning we arise early to the Synagogue and we arrange the blessings, the biblical paragraphs of the sacrifices, and the Mishanayos of (the Chapter) אֵיזֶהוּ מְקומָן (What is the Location, Zevachim Perek 5) like the order of the other days only we add וּבְיום הַשַּׁבָּת (And on the Sabbath Day, Bamidbar 28:9-10). And we say בָּרוּךְ שֶׁאָמַר (Blessed is the one that said) and 'Pesukei Dezimra' (Verses of Song), and we are accustomed to add Psalms because there is no work for the Nation. And we are accustomed in Ashekenaz to say immediately בָּרוּךְ שֶׁאָמַר after the Mishnayos of אֵיזֶהוּ מְקומָן and then after all the Psalms that we add. And in Toledo (, Spain i.e. Sefardic custom) they say the (additional) Psalms first and afterwards בָּרוּךְ שֶׁאָמַר and after the Psalm of the Day of Shabbos. However, it is more fitting the custom of Ashkenaz to say all the Psalms between בָּרוּךְ שֶׁאָמַר and יִשְׁתַּבַּח (Be Praised) in order that they all have a blessing before them and a blessing after them. And in Ashkenaz we do not say the Psalm for Thanksgiving (Tehillim 100) on Shabbos because that we did bring the Thanksgiving Offering on Shabbos. And this is not a preeminent reason. And after the Shira (Song of the Sea), we add the Nishmas prayer that there is in from the matter of the Exodus of Egypt; therefore, it is placed next to the Shira, and we end (Pesukei Dezimra) with יִשְׁתַּבַּח. And the Prayer Leader says Kaddish, and Barchu, and we read Shema with its blessings and add in the first blessing praise and rejoicing to the Holy One Blessed be He. Yet, my Father and Teacher z'l question on those accustomed in all places that the Congregation says some of the Bracha and the Prayer Leader completes it. קָרָא לַשֶּׁמֶשׁ וַיִּזְרַח אור. רָאָה וְהִתְקִין צוּרַת הַלְּבָנָה (He called out to the sun, and it shone with light/He saw, and fixed the shape of the moon.) Explanation: when He called to the sun to lighten, and saw that world would come to err after it to serve it then he fixed (התקין)the shape of the moon. (This is) in order that it minimize from those that err after it when one see that there are two, and it is needed the moon to help the sun at night to know that the world is not capable of being by the Sun alone. There are those that explain He saw and made small (והקטין) and they explain that on the complaint (of the moon, see Rashi Bereshis 1:14, Chullin 60b).