34. The order of their placement in the compartments according to Rashi, “Consecrate” is on the left of the one placing, in the outer compartment. After it “And when He has brought you out” is in the second compartment. “Shema” is in the third compartment. And in the fourth compartment, which is the outer one on his right, “If then, you keep.” According to Rabbenu Tam, the order is: “Consecrate” on the left, and after it in the second compartment, “And when he has brought you out.” In the third, “If then, you keep.” In the fourth, which is the outer one, “Shema.” An indicator of this is that they should be together, with the two shins, namely “Consecrate” and “Shema,” on the exterior next to the shins on the compartments. So too is the order for that of the hand; the (one) master as he has it and the (other) master as he has it. However, even according to Rabbenu Tam, it is required to write them in the order that they are written in the Torah, which is “Consecrate,” “And when he brought you out,” “Shema,” and “If then, you keep,” as is taught: If he wrote them not according to their order, he should hide it away, meaning not according to the order they are written in the Torah. Therefore, that of the hand, which is on one parchment, he should write “Consecrate,” “And when he brought you out,” and leave a blank space for the section “If then, you keep,” write Shema, and afterward write “If then, you keep,” for the order of placement in the compartments of that of the hand and that of the head are the same. Concerning this matter a dispute erupted among the Geonim; some of them holding according to Rashi’s words and some of them holding according to Rabbenu Tam’s words. My master, my father the Rosh, may his memory be a blessing, wrote that since the greats of the world were divided over it, with the tefillin of these rendering unusable the tefillin of those, as was taught: “He reversed their sections,” meaning that one who juxtaposes one compartment with another, they are unusable. The sages have stated that there is space on the head on which to place two tefillin, and so too the arm; therefore, a God fearing person fulfills the obligation of both of them, and should make two pairs of tefillin, and should put two of them on, and intend that putting them on acts accordingly like a mental corrective, making a legal statement about them that “I fulfill my obligation; the others are merely like straps.” There is no issue here of (transgressing) “You shall not add,” for it is only considered a case of “You shall not add” when he makes five compartments. But he should not place two pairs in one bag, for one of them is non-sacral and it is prohibited to put it in a tefillin bag. Rather, he should make two tefillin bags and make a mark on each one, in order that he not put this one in that one. So would my master, my father the Rosh, may his memory be a blessing, do, and his teacher, Rabbenu Meir of Rothenburg, may his memory be a blessing.