Wheat that arrived in a boat that had sunk and may have become hametz and it is not visible, should not be sold to a non-Jew lest they be sold back to a Jew, and the hametz is not visible. Instead they should be sold to Jews, in small portions, such that they will be eaten before Passover. And the Ba'al Ha'itur wrote that even if they are not informed it is permissible, as they will eat them before Passover. And the Rambam wrote that the Jews need to be informed. And it seems that the ruling is according to the Ba'al Ha'itur, for we only allow small portions. If they are informed then large portions would also be permitted. There are those who say that one is also permitted to a non-Jew in small portions, for only large portions are not permitted to be sold to a non-Jew, for there is a concern that he will sell it back to Jews. The Rav Ephraim wrote they are not permitted even though they were unsplit, even though regarding soaking they are not forbidden until they are split. Soaking is different because someone is busy with it therefore they don't become hametz until they split. But here since they are resting in the water they can become hametz. It is written in the Hilchot Gedolot that wheat that arrived by boat, if they are wet or they changed appearance, then for sure they were in touch with water and it is forbidden to keep them for Pesach; they have to be sold in little portions, so that they are eaten before Pesach. But if they are dry and hard, and they have not changed appearance, we do not consider them forbidden, and they are permitted to eat. And this is the ruling of Rav Tsemah the head of the Yeshiva and so wrote Rabenu Av'n: Honey from a non-Jew we do not consider it forbidden to say it is a fake: If someone soaked wheat or barley and they split they are forbidden, but if they are unsplit they are permitted. And Mar Ukva commented that when it is ruled that if they are split they are forbidden, it is not that they actually split, but they are about to split - if they would be placed on a wine barrel they would split because of the fumes of the wine. And there are those who say on top of a Haviv which is a vessel for drying peels on the fire. And Shmuel says that they are not forbidden until they split. And Rav Alfasi says that there are those who rule like Shmuel, forbidden only when split, and those who rule like Mar Ukva. And he - Rav Alfasi - ruled like Mar Ukva to be stringent. And this applies when one eats the grains, but if they are found inside cooked food, and they are not actually split, since a very small amount is forbidden rabbinically, they would not forbid the cooked food, unless they were actually split.