Rava Papa said the Halacha is as follows. Items that come due to the meal, during the meal do not require a blessing, not before consumption or after. For example meat, fish, eggs, vegetables, cheese or a pounded grain dish. It is not necessary to compliment the bread with the item (as in a dip), rather if the dip/ complimenting food item is eaten alone, it does not require a blessing before hand, as the blessing on the bread exempts it. Further, one doesn't need to make an after blessing, as the after bread blessing exempts it. Items that are brought to the meal, not due to the meal like dates or grapes, and all species of fruits and items not brought due to the meal because they are not like meat, fish and cooked dishes that are generally brought as the essence of the meal, require a blessing, as the blessing on bread does not exempt them since they are not part of the essence of the meal. Further, these items are not exempt from an after blessing as the after blessing of bread only exempts that which is eaten in the meal. Explanation: everything that we have mentioned above regarding coming due to the meal, or not due to the meal, if it is brought after the meal but before the after blessing, as is regularly done in large meals, that after they have withdrawn their hand from eating bread, they remove it and cover the table in fruit and desserts, and set themselves to drink anything that is brought to them, therefore whether it is something that comes due to the meal or not due to the meal, it requires a blessing before it and after it, as the blessing of bread and the after blessing can only exempt what is eaten during the meal. The Rosh writes that there is a question on one who sets his meal on fruits, if he eats from them at the beginning (of his meal), whether he needs to make a blessing on them. And there is good reason not to make a blessing, that according to me it is like items that came due to the meal, since the essence of the meal is reliant on the fruit, the bread will exempt them from a blessing, even if he eats a little of the fruit without bread. But when they bring fruits in the middle of the meal, since the essence of the meal is not on the fruit, even though it comes to compliment the bread, if it is eaten even a little without bread, one must say a blessing on them.