24. Even though a person is not obligated to purchase a four cornered tallit in order to obligate himself for tzitzit, precisely where he wishes to be covered with a tallit of four corners, he is liable to put tzitzit on it. In any case, it is well and right for every person to take care and hasten in regard to the mitzvah of tzitzit, that he will have a small fringed garment which he will wear all day, for the essence of its mitzvah is in remembering the mitzvot, and in every hour and in every moment he therefore requires a physical representation of the thing, like a person who cautions his fellow about one matter, where he ties a knot on his belt in order that he remember it. Accordingly, there are five knots, corresponding to the five books of the Torah, and four corner pieces, where for every side to which he turns, he will remember. And greater is the punishment at this time for one who nullifies than what the punishment was at the time when the teheilet was in existence, for at that time it was not so easy to find, and not every one was able to pursue it, which is not so now. Even one who is not able to wrap himself the entire day needs to take care with it at the time of prayer. The Ba’al HaItur wrote: "As for those who gather up the tzitzit at the time of the recitation of the Shema and place (them) on the eyes, it is possible that they are accustomed to do so because of "You shall see them," on account of them being under his garments. Great is the mitzvah of tzitzit, for it is weighed against all of the mitzvot, as "You shall see it and you shall remember all the mitzvot of the Lord" is written. ‘Tzitzit’ adds up to six hundred, and eight threads and five knots are thirteen, which is six hundred and thirteen. Even though it is written lacking a ‘yud,’ he explains in the Tanhuma: "Three times ‘tzitzit’ is written in the section concerning tzitzit, yet one of them is ‘l’tzitzit,’ whereby ‘l’ (thirty) is sufficient for all of them, and it fills out the counting." Rabbi Shimon ben Yochai says: Anyone who had taken care concerning the mitzvah of tzitzit is well accounted, and sees the face of the Shekhinah. Here "You shall see it" is written and elsewhere "(The face) of the Lord your God (shall be seen)," you shall see and Him shall you serve. Resh Lakish said: Anyone who had taken care concerning the mitzvah of tzitzit is well accounted, for two thousand eight hundred servants shall attend him, as "Ten men from nations of every tongue will take hold – they will take hold of every Jew by a corner of his cloak" is stated. And of anyone who nullifies the mitzvah of tzitzit is said "So that it seizes the corners of the earth, etc." "At every moment, let your clothes be white," this is the mitzvah of tzitzit; "and your head never lack ointment," this is the mitzvah of tefillin. Rabbi Eleazar ben Yakov says: One who has tefillin on his head and on his arm, and a mezuzah on his entrance and tzitzit on his garment is assured that he will not sin, as "A threefold cord is not readily broken" is stated. And it states: "The angel of the Lord camps around those who fear Him and rescues them."