25. After he has wrapped himself in tzitzit, he immediately puts on tefillin in order that they be present for him at the time of the recitation of the Shema and tefillah, for Rabbi Yohanan said: ‘One who wishes to accept the yoke of God’s sovereignty upon himself in toto should relieve himself, rinse his hands, put on tefillin and engage in the recitation of the Shema and tefillah.’ And Ulla said: ‘Anyone who engages in the recitation of the Shema without tefillin is as if he is giving false testimony against himself.’ Rabbi Hiya bar Abba said in the name of Rabbi Yohanan: ‘It is as if he brought a burnt offering without a meal offering; a sacrifice without libation.’ But if he relieved himself, rinsed his hands, put on tefillin and engaged in the recitation of the Shema and tefillah, it is as if he built an altar and brought all the sacrifices onto it, as "I wash my hands in cleanness and walk about your altar, Lord" is stated. And I observed of my lord, my father the Rosh, may his memory be for a blessing, that he would be punctilious about putting them on when going through the blessings, and would recite them one after the other until ‘Who crowns Israel in glory,’ and thereafter would put them on and recite the blessing ‘Who crowns Israel in glory,’ since the tefillin are called ‘glory,’ as "Put on your headdress" is stated, and are called tefillin, the terminology of pelilah, for they are a sign and witnesses for all we see, for the shekhinah alights upon us, as "And all the peoples of the earth will see that the Lord’s name is proclaimed over you" is written. We have expounded these are the head tefillin. He should have the intention when putting them on that God commanded us to insert these four sections (of the Torah) in which there are the unification of Your name and the Exodus from Egypt on the arm facing the heart, and on his head facing the brain, in order that he be reminded of the Exodus from Egypt on account of miracles and wonders which He performed on our behalf, for they instruct about His unity, that He is alone in His universe and is in possession of the power and the governance on high and below, to do with them according to His will. He should put on that of the hand first and recite the blessing ‘Who sanctified us with His mitzvot and commanded us to put on tefillin,’ and afterward that of the head, reciting the blessing ‘Who sanctified us with His mitzvot and commanded us concerning the mitzvah of tefillin.’ Even though Rav Alfas ruled that one recites only one blessing over them both, namely ‘to put on,’ lest he should make a verbal interruption between them when he recites the blessing for the head, ‘concerning the mitzvah of tefillin.’ So too did Rashi and many of the commentators write. And my lord, my father the Rosh, may his memory be for a blessing, agreed that it is acceptable to recite two blessings, even with no interruption. But if he interrupted verbally, he goes back and recites the blessing over that of the head, ‘to put on,’ and also ‘concerning the mitzvah of tefillin.’ He recites the blessing over them from the moment that he begins to put them on until the moment that he fastens them on his head and on his arm. He should not interrupt between them to speak, even to answer ‘Amen, may His exalted name be sanctified,’ or the kedushah. If he spoke, it is a transgression accounted to him, and he needs to go back and recite the blessing as explained. I observed my lord, my father the Rosh, may his memory be for a blessing, that immediately after he tied that of the hand on his arm, he would situate that of the head before he would wrap the strap around his arm, for he would say “Since the second blessing is also effective for that of the hand.” And from this reason - one does not interrupt between them - it is advisable to diminish the interruption in any way possible. But the wrapping around the arm is not based on the mitzvah. Therefore, it is best to delay until after he puts on that of the head. And any time that he puts them on during the day, he recites a blessing. Even if they loosen from their place and he handles them to return them to their place, he needs to recite a blessing.