And he should be cautious to make a fine lamp, as R. Huna said: One who is regular [to light] a Shabbat lamp, to strive to perform this, and to make it attractive, will have sons who are scholars. And there are those who make two wicks, one to correspond with "Remember" and one to correspond with "Observe." But if he cannot afford to buy a lamp for Shabbat and a lamp for Hannukah, Shabbat takes priority. Similarly if he cannot afford to buy a candle and wine for Kiddush, the candle takes priority because of domestic tranquility, for there is no domestic tranquility without a lamp. And he should not hurry to light it while the day is still long, for then it won't be known that he lights it for the honor of Shabbat. Nor should he light late. And when he lights he blesses: Blessed are you, Lord our God, King of the universe who has sancitified us with his commandments and commanded us to light the Sabbath lamp. Both men and women are commanded to light this, but women are more commanded than men, as it says in the Midrash: Since she extinguished the lamp of the world, meaning she caused the death of the first human. And the Rambam explains [that women are more obligated] because they are found at home and they take care of household needs. And there are those who says that we should not recite a blessing over it, and they explain that if the lamp was already lit he need not extinguish it in order to go back and light it again, nor need he light another lamp. But this is not a good reason, for with regard to covering the blood [of a bird or wild animal that was slaughtered] we taught: If the wind covered [the blood] he need not go back and cover it again, and nevertheless we bless the covering. Furthermore, Rabbenu Tam said that if it was already lit he must extinguish it and go back and light it again. For an elder said: We have taught: As long as he doesn't do it too early or too late. And so too wrote Rav Amram: One who lights the Shabbat candle blesses. And so too wrote the Halakhot Gedolot that the acceptance of Shabbat is dependent upon the lighting of the candle, for once he has lit the Shabbat candle Shabbat has begun for him. And for this reason he wrote that one must first light the Hannukah lamp before the Shabbat candle for if he does Shabbat first, he cannot afterwards light the Hannukah candle. But the Tosafot wrote that [the beginning of Shabbat] is not dependent on the lighting of the lamp for even after he lights, Shabbat has not begun for him. Rather it is dependent on the maariv prayer, for Shabbat begins once he has prayed maariv.