27. The area of placement of that of the hand is on the left arm on the thickest part of the flesh, which is in the section between the forearm and the shoulder. He should incline it slightly to the right side, in order that when he bends his arm it will be facing his heart. There should not be anything interposed between them and his flesh. A left handed man: his ‘right’ hand places on his ‘left,’ which is everyone’s right. The master Rabbi Yehiel of Paris explained it is specifically where he does all of his work with his left, but if he writes with his right, even though the rest of his work with his left, its ruling is like every person. One who is ambidextrous places on the left (like) every person. He should wrap the strap around his arm until he reaches the middle finger and wrap it around it three times. The area of the head tefillin is from the beginning of the roots of his forehead hair until the end of the area where the brain of an infant pulsates, which is the entire height of the head. It is required that the knot be behind the head above the lower edge of the skull, but not below the neck, for it should be truly facing the neck, aligned with the middle of the head, and should not incline toward the side of the face in this direction or that. And it is required that it be his ornament, that the place where it appears is the form of a dalet, on the exterior side and not on the ‘head’ side. He should also take care that the straps which wind around his head, that they not become reversed, in order that they be ornamental on the exterior, meaning the white is toward the hair, which is smoother, and the black color recognizable on the exterior. He should drape the straps so that they hang before him, reaching, on the right, until the navel and on the left until the breast. Some say that of the right side until the (site of the) circumcision and that of the left until the navel. The measure of their width is the length of a hair, but if he lessened or added, it does not abrogate.