36. These are the letters with who’s writing one must be exacting, for a person may easily err with them: The aleph requires one to be careful with the point above it, which is in the form of a yud which crowns it. So too all the letters need to be a single form. Subsequently, all of them need to touch, such as the point of a shin and of an ayin and that which follows the tzadi; one which is not so touching is rendered unacceptable, except for the leg of the hay and the kuf, which alone are not touching; if they are touching, they are rendered unacceptable. Bet: One needs to be careful with the crown of its back quarter, so that it does not appear like a kaf. It is required that it have a small crown on its top left side. Dalet: One must be careful of the crown on its rear quarter, so that it does not appear like a resh. Hay: It has a small crown above, at the end of its ‘roof’ on the left side, such as is (stated) in the chapter Hakometz: “What is the reason hay has a crown?” Rashi explained: “It has a small crown above, at the end of its ‘roof.’” But Rabbenu Tam explained that it is dealing with the extrusion of its rear quarter, so that it is not rounded behind it; it is well to act according to both of their words. Chet: In the chapter Hakometz: “a hump-like stroke on the roof of the chet.” Rashi explained it is like the form of a staff, where the left side is in the form of a staff, like this.” But Rabbenu Tam explained that there needs to be a raised part in the middle of its ‘roof,’ like this, from the term ‘camel’s hump.” One should take care not to lengthen the leg of the yud, so that it does not appear like a vav, and he should not shorten the leg of the vav, so that it does not appear like a yud. So too the leg of the zayin; he should not lengthen it, so that it does not appear like a simple nun; and he should not shorten the leg of the nun, so that it does not appear like a zayin. Rabbenu Tam explained that the yud requires that the left head be bent below like this, as it is in the chapter Hakometz: ‘For what reason is the head of the yud bent?’ In the Pesikta : The world to come was created through yud: just as a yud has one point below, an allusion to the dead who descend to gehinnom, and one above, an allusion to their future rising. Accordingly, the yud has a crown above and is also bent below. The tet: Rabbenu Tam used to say that its upper right side is bent down like this. And the kaf, one should take care to round off its back side, so that it does not appear like a bet. The samekh needs to round off in three directions, so that it does not appear like a closed mem. And with any letter with which there is a doubt, we bring a young child, neither wise nor foolish; if he is able to read it, it is kosher. Which are the letters that one needs to crown? Rava stated: You find the entire alphabet of crowned letters in the tefillin. And these are they: “Khatz vu shai l’ma’at” in the ‘Consecrate’ section; “b’far hazam dikakh koh tat” in the ‘And when He brought you out’ section; “shatnez gatz” in the Shema and ‘If then, you keep’ section. And these are their explanations: Khatz: The khet and tzadee of ‘khametz’, khet, four crowns, tzadee five crowns. Us: of ‘v’hayevusi,’ three three crowns. The shin of ‘asher,’ five crowns; the yud of ‘li,’ three crowns. L’mah of ‘l’ma’an,’ four four crowns. Tav of Torat, three crowns. The bet of ‘yivee’akh’ah,’ per of peter, three three crowns. Hazam of ‘hazekherim,’ three three crowns. The akh of ‘yishalkhah,’ four four crowns. The dalet of ‘yad,’ the kuf of ‘hikshah,’ the khet of ‘l’shalkhaynu,’ khah of ‘yadkhah,’ three three crowns. The tat of ‘l’totafot,’ five five crowns. Shatnez gatz: The shah of ‘Shema,’ the tat of ‘l’totafot,’ the nun of ‘nafshekha,’ the zaz of ‘mezuzot,’ the gimel of ‘d’gankha,’ the tzadee of ‘ha’aretz,’ three three crowns. But he did not have to mention shatnez gatz among the other crowns, for all of them are major crowns, but shatnez gatz are minor crowns, and in every instance, they are the ones which require minor crowns. In the Shimusha Rabba, he disqualified (the parchment) if one of these crowns was lacking. But my master, my father the Rosh, may his memory be a blessing, wrote ‘In our gemara, these crowns were not mentioned, and one should not at all consider disqualifying due to a lack of these crowns. And the Rambam did not write them in his composition but wrote others. This is his language: ‘One needs to take care with the crowns of the letters, which are like zions on the letters, like they are written in a Torah scroll. And which are those letters which are crowned in these four sections? The first section contains one, which is the closed mem of miyamim, upon which are three crowns. The second section contains five letters, all of them hays, and on every one of them are four zions: The hay of v’natnah, the first hay and the last hay of hikshah, the hay of vayaharog, and the hay of yadkhah. The third section contains five letters. Which are they? The kuf of uv’komekhah has three zions upon it, the kuf of ukshartam has three zions upon it. And totaffof totefet, every one of those three letters has four zions. The fourth section has five letters. And which are they? The pay of v’asafta has three zions upon it. The taf of v’asafta has one zion upon it. Totaf of totafot: each of the three of them has four zions. All the crowned letters are sixteen, but if he did not make the crowns, or added and scraped them off, he does not consider it unusable.’ His language ends here. Therefore, it is well that he makes all of them, for it is not rendered unusable through a change, nor through addition nor through diminishment. And what are those lacking or superfluous (yuds) of which the Rambam wrote? The first section: kadesh li khol bekhor is full. Bekhozek is lacking. Hotzee is full. Yotzim is lacking a vav. Yeviakhah is full. V’ha’emori is lacking. V’hayevusi is full. La’avotekha is lacking a vav. Ha’avodah is lacking. Matzot is lacking. Hashevi’i is full. Matzot is full. Se’or is lacking. Gevulekha is lacking. Ba’avur is full. L’ot is full. U’lezikaron is full. Eineikha is full. Hotzee’akha is lacking a yud. Torat is full. Hakhukah is lacking. L’moadah is full. The second section: V’haya ki y’vi’akha is lacking. v’la’avotekha is lacking a vav. Khamor is lacking. Bekhor is full. B’khozek is lacking. Hotzee’anu is full, vav and yud. Vayaharog is lacking. Bekhor is full. Mibekhor is lacking. V’ad bakhor is full. Zove’akh is lacking. V’khol bekhor is full. L’ot is full. Yad’kha is written with a hay. U’letotafot is lacking the final vav. Eineikha is full. B’khozek is lacking. Hotzee’ani is full, vav and yud. Third section: Shema: the ayin of Shema is large. The dalet of ehad is large. Me’odekha is lacking. L’vanekha is full. B’veitekha is lacking the second yud. Uv’kumekha is a full yud. L’ot is full. Yadekha is lacking. L’totafot is lacking two yuds. Eineikha is full. Mezuzot is lacking the first vav. Beitekha is lacking the second yud. U’veeshareikha is full. The fourth section: V’haya im shamoa is lacking. Mitzvotai is with one vav. Yoreh is full. Umalkosh is full. V’tiroshkha is lacking a vav. V’hishtakhavitem is full. Hatovah is lacking. Notein is lacking. Otam is lacking. L’ot is lacking. L’totafot is lacking a second vav. Eineikhem is full. B’veiteikhah is is lacking the second yud. Uvkumeikhah is a full vav. Mezuzot is full. Beiteikha is lacking the second yud. Uveeshareikha is full. L’avoteikhem is lacking a vav. Rabbeinu Tam disagrees concerning the third letotafot, saying that it also lacks two vavs.