Redeeming captives precedes poor people [in regards to tzedakah] and in clothing them. There is not mitzvah greater than redeeming captives, therefore in regard to any mitzvah for which money was collected, we can reappropriate these funds to redeeming captives, even if they were collected for the needs of building a synagogue. Even if they [already] bought wood, stones, and cut them to the needs of construction, it would be forbidden to sell these for the sake of another mitzvah but it is permitted to sell them for the need of redeeming captives. But, if they already built it [the synagogue] they should not sell them.
We do not redeem captives for more than their value because of tikkun olam [ordering the world] so that enemies won't dedicate themselves to take captives. Even relatives if they want to redeem them for more than their value, we do not allow them too. But, if a person wants to redeem himself, he can do so with whatever he wants. Similarly, with regard to his wife who is like his flesh or the son of a student of the sages, even if he isn't a student of the sages, and they see that he could succeed and become a student of the sages, we can redeem him for as much as possible.
We do not help captives escape (without a price) so that enemies do not weigh them down and add extra guards and protection.
One who sold himself to non-Jews or borrowed from them and they took him captive for his debt, the first time or second time, we redeem him. The third time, we do not redeem him but we do redeem his children after their father dies. If they try to kill him, we redeem him immediately even after several instances [of being taken captive].
A slave who was taken captive, since he has immersed for the sake of enslavement and accepted mitzvot, we redeem him like a yisrael who was taken captive.
A captive who apostasies even one mitzvah, like eating neveilos (unkosher meat), out of spite or something like this, it is forbidden to redeem him.
We redeem a woman before a man. If they both were pursued for transgression, we redeem the man first because he isn't accustomed to this.