“These are the places that are obligated in mezuzah: The gates of houses, the gates of courtyards, provinces and towns, cattle barns, chicken coops, hay barns, and storehouses of wine and oil. A woman’s house and a house owned by partners — all are obligated. A hay barn, a woodshed, and a cattle house are stam (in the default case) obligated — unless women bathe in them, then they are exempt. And the Rambam wrote that they are not obligated unless women sit in them to adorn themselves, but stam they are exempt. And my father the Rosh wrote like the first opinion. A synagogue of villages is stam obligated, because ordinarily people live in it. In cities, if it has a living space for the chazzan it is obligated; if not, exempt. But a bathroom, a bathhouse, a tannery, and a mikveh, and a synagogue that has no living space for the chazzan are exempt, since they have no living space. But any place that is for dwelling is obligated, even if it is in a filthy place — but it is good to cover it so it is not visible. An achsadra (porch) that has three walls and is open on the fourth side is exempt, even if the open side has posts in the form of a doorway. But if it has a wall also on the fourth side, even if it is low or made as windows, it is obligated. A balcony that is used to ascend to upper stories, and a gatehouse, and a garden are exempt; but if a house opens into any of these, it is obligated, even if one enters them from the public domain — except for the place through which you enter from the house. And R. Yehudah explained that a gatehouse is rabbinically obligated even if no house opens into it. A gatehouse that opens to both a house and a courtyard is obligated in two mezuzot — one for the side opening to the house, and one for the side opening to the courtyard — except for the side that opens from the public domain. A gatehouse standing between a garden and a house is obligated in two mezuzot — one for the house side and one for the garden side. A study hall (beit midrash) is exempt from mezuzah. But if it has a door through which one regularly goes out to his home, that doorway is obligated. But the main entrance made for general coming and going is exempt. Yerushalmi: The study hall of R. Ḥanina had a mezuzah. And similarly the Maharam of Rothenburg made a mezuzah for the entrance of his study hall, and he said that when he slept there at midday an evil spirit would frighten him before he fixed a mezuzah there. A sukkah used during the festival, a house on a ship, and market stalls are exempt. The workshops of artisans, one inside the other — the inner is obligated and the outer exempt. A house that is not roofed, or does not have four by four cubits, is exempt. And the Rambam wrote: if it has enough area to square four by four — even if it is round or five-sided — it is obligated; and needless to say, if its length exceeds its width it is obligated, as long as it can be squared to four by four. And my father the Rosh wrote that it is not obligated unless it is actually square four by four. A house without a roof is exempt. If part is roofed and part is not, the Rambam wrote: if the roofing is near the doorway, it is obligated; otherwise, exempt. And he wrote further that a house is not obligated in mezuzah unless it has doors installed; therefore, one must install the doors before affixing (the mezuzah). But this does not seem correct to my father the Rosh, for the obligation of mezuzah does not depend on doors. If a house has many rooms one inside the other, all are obligated in mezuzah. Similarly, if a house has many openings to a courtyard or to the public domain, and they were all made for entry and exit by the household, all are obligated — even if the number of residents has decreased and they now use only one. But if someone has a small doorway for himself alone to exit to his study hall or similar, and the household does not normally use it, it is exempt. A skylight opening between a house and an upper story, and people climb through it by a ladder, and they make around the ladder a surrounding of partitions — sometimes at the bottom of the ladder and sometimes at its top — and it has the form of a doorway at the place they make it: it is obligated. And if they made it both above and below, it is obligated in two. A braisa taught: A doorway behind a door — if it has side-posts (pitzim) of one handbreadth, it is obligated. Rashi explains: such as when the corner of a house has a fixed post for two doorways cut into it, one to the north and one to the west. And one affixed a mezuzah on the post for the northern doorway. When the door is open, this is “behind the door.” If the thickness of the post — the thickness of the doorway — is a handbreadth between one doorway and the other, one requires another mezuzah for the western doorway since the mezuzah is not in its opening. If not, one does not require a second mezuzah, since it is considered as placed in its own doorway. And it appears from here that doorways that are divided with a column in the middle need only one mezuzah, even if the column is one handbreadth thick — for they required two only when one faces north and one west, but when both doorways are in one direction, even with a column of one handbreadth, it is considered one doorway. And even according to the second explanation of Rashi — like when people make a small door beside a large gate, where the large gate is not usually opened and the small one is — and if there is a post one handbreadth wide between them one needs another mezuzah — even so, it seems that a divided doorway does not need it, because there the small door is entirely separate from the large one, since each opens and closes independently; but here they are not separate: when one is opened, the other is also opened, and they close together, and the column is only decorative — so they count as one. One who rents a house outside the Land (of Israel), and one who stays in an inn in the Land of Israel, is exempt from mezuzah for thirty days. But one who rents a house in the Land of Israel is obligated in mezuzah immediately, because of the settlement of the Land of Israel.”