A lung that is punctured is a triefah. First I shall explain the structure of the lungs and afterwards the triefot of them. Rava stated: "There are 5 lobes of the lungs; 3 on the right and 2 on the left." Explanation: to the right of the animal. This is to the right of the butcher when the animal is hanging (upside down) by its feet and its organs are facing the butcher, and if the butcher were to take the organs in his hand and the face of the lungs was facing his face, facing the left side of the man would be 3 (lobes) and facing his right would be 2 (lobes). There is an additional small lobe on the right side called the "Inunita d'varda" (Accessory lobe, lit. "Eye of the rose") and it does not stand in the order of the other lobes but rather is distant from them towards the inside. If one of the lobes from either the left side or the right side are missing or there were two on the right and three on the left it is a treifah. If the varda is missing, Rashi says it is kosher but if it has two it is treifah. Rabbeinu Efraim forbids consuming the animal when it is missing its varda but permits it when there are two. The Geonim permit the animal whether it has no vardot or two vardot, and this is the main opinion. If their are extra lobes in their count, such as four lobes on the right lung or three on the left, if the extra lobe stands in the order of the other lobes the animal is kosher and if not it is treifah. The Baal HaIttur writes that the animal is not kosher unless the extra lobe is directly in the order of the lobes but if it is somewhat in between the other lobes, not in the order of the other lobes, like the varda, it is treifah, whether the extra lobe is on the right or left side. The Rambam, however, writes that as long as the extra lobe is facing the inside of the lung it does not render the animal forbidden. (It is only forbidden)if the extra lobe is on the back (of the lungs). My father, the Rosh, agreed with the opinion of the Baal HaIttur, who stated that if the varda is found on the left side the animal is treifah. If the extra lobe was on the backside of the lungs, in any location, even a small extra lobe the size of a myrtle leaf, it is treifah. If, however, it is smaller than a myrtle leaf after the lung has been inflated, it is not considered an extra lobe. The Baal HaIttur writes that we learn from this that the minimum size of a lobe is the size of a myrtle leaf. If one of the lobes is missing and there is nothing left of it but a piece the size of a myrtle leaf the animal is kosher. If one of the lobes of the right side is missing, the Rambam writes that the varda fills in for it. Rashi writes that the varda does not fill in for it. It is better to be stringent. If the lungs were two rows without divisions of lobes the animal is a triefah. Rashi explains that this is referring to when there are not complete divisions between the lobes of the lungs. When there are recognizable divisions between the lobes the animal is kosher (opinion of the Rosh). Rambam writes that if one finds two lobes attached as one and they are not identifiable as two lobes that are stuck together; if there was between them (a section) the size of a myrtle leaf, whether at their point of origin, in the middle, or at their ends, so that it can be seen that these are two lobes that are attached, the animal is permitted, but if not the animal is forbidden. There are those who wrote that if the lobes are attached along their complete lengths, one takes a sharp knife and separates the two lobes. If a strand of meat comes out from separating them they are one lobe and the animal is treifah and if not the animal is kosher. The language of the Talmud sounds like Rashi's explanation, that if there is any recognition of the lobes being separate the animal is kosher, and this is the main opinion.