It is forbidden to curse a judge, and one who curses him transgresses a negative commandment, as it is said, "You shall not curse the gods." Anyone who curses one of Israel transgresses a negative commandment, as it is said, "You shall not curse the deaf." And the Torah specifies the case of the deaf person to teach us that even though he does not hear and is not pained, all the more so one who hears and is pained by the curse incurs lashes for it. Maimonides wrote that one who curses a sleeping person is liable, since he is no different from a deaf person.
One who curses the dead is exempt.
"Even the one who curses himself is obligated, as it is said, 'Take heed to yourself and diligently guard your soul.'"
"And one is not liable for all these until he curses using the Name or one of the appellations."
"And since one who curses using an appellation is liable, therefore, one who curses in any language is liable, because the names that the Gentiles use to refer to the Holy One, Blessed be He, are considered among the appellations."
"And if one said 'Cursed be he,' it is considered a curse because 'cursed' implies excommunication, an oath, and a curse. In all these cases, one is not liable for lashes until he is warned in the presence of witnesses, as with all those liable for prohibitions. However, if there was no warning or if he cursed without using the Name or an appellation, such as saying 'Cursed be so-and-so' or if the curse was implied from the context, such as saying 'May so-and-so not be blessed by the Lord' or 'May the Lord not bless him,' and similar expressions, he does not receive lashes. Nonetheless, there is still a prohibition, even though he does not receive lashes."
"If someone insults a Torah scholar, they excommunicate him. If the court wishes to, they may also administer disciplinary lashes and punish him as they see fit, since he has disgraced the scholar. If the offender is an unlearned person, they punish him according to what the situation requires, based on the nature of the insult and the one who was insulted."
"Even if the scholar or any other person forgives the one who cursed for his curse, they still beat him because he has already sinned and is liable."
"But someone who deserves excommunication because he showed contempt for the court, if the court wishes to forgive their honor and not excommunicate him, they have the discretion to do so, provided there is no detriment to the honor of the Creator. However, if there is a detriment to the honor of the Creator, such as the people showing disdain for the laws of the Torah and its judges, since the people have shown contempt in this matter, the court needs to enforce and punish as they see fit."