Laws of property that damages.. Just as a person is forbidden to harm another and, if he causes damage, is obligated to pay, so too he must guard his possessions so that they do not cause damage. If they cause damage, he is obligated to pay, whether the possession is a living being or not. A living being includes animals, wild animals, and birds. Non-living things include a pit, fire, and their derivatives. This is in the case where the entity is not one with independent thought, however, a slave, who does have independent thought, does not render his master liable for his damages. For if the master were liable, the slave might harm others in retaliation whenever provoked by his master, intending to make his master responsible. Regarding animals, as it is written: "If a man's ox gores another's..." (Exodus 21:28), and it is taught [in the Mishnah] that this applies equally to oxen and all other domestic beasts and wild animals. The verse mentions oxen because that is the common case. The law is not the same for all cases. There are some cases where it is forewarned (mu’ad) from the outset for everything the entity does, and there are others where certain actions are initially forewarned (mu’ad), and others are considered innocuous (tam) until the entity becomes forewarned (mu’ad) over time. The rule for a mu’ad is that it pays the full amount of the damage caused. A tam pays only half the damage. Therefore, something initially classified as tam and then becomes mu’ad pays half-damages while it is still a tam and full damages once it becomes mu’ad.There is another difference between a tam and a mu’ad. For a mu’ad that damages, the obligation for damages is upon the property of the owner to pay the full damages to the damaged. However, for a tam, the liability does not fall on the owner’s general property but rather on the body of the ox that caused the damage. Even if the ox killed another (ox) worth a thousand dinars and the damaging ox is worth only one dinar, the owner pays nothing from his own property, rather, (the injured party) takes the ox itself. If the (damaging) ox dies, and the carcass is worthless, the injured party loses everything. A tam becomes a mu’ad after three instances of goring that occur consecutively. I will not elaborate on the process by which an ox becomes a mu’ad or how it reverts to being a tam, as there is no classification of mu’ad in our times, since such a designation requires testimony before a formal court (beit din) of ordained judges. Thus, an ox always retains the status of tam nowadays.Additionally, I will not delve into the laws of an ox that kills a person, as such cases are not judged in our time due to the need for a court of 23 judges. Although the half-damage payment for a tam is considered a fine (k'nas), and fines are not collectible (in our times), nonetheless since we don’t take away the payment if he seizes it, therefore, I felt the need to explain it. These are classified as mu'adim (forewarned for damage) from the outset: the wolf, the lion, the bear, the leopard, and the tiger—even if they are domesticated. If they kill or cause damage, even to an animal larger than themselves, the owner is obligated to pay full damages. The Rambam wrote that all of these are liable for full damages for any type of harm they cause. However, Rabbeinu Yitzchak (R"Y) explained that this does not apply to all types of damage but rather that each animal is considered mu'ad (forewarned) for the kind of damage that is its typical behavior. For example, a lion is forewarned to pounce and eat or to attack and leave its prey. Therefore, regarding these actions, it is classified as mu'ad, and the owner is liable for full damages if the act occurs in the injured party’s domain (reshut hanizak). However, the owner is exempt in the public domain (reshut harabim), following the rules of regel (damage by trampling). But if the lion attacks and eats the prey, that is not its usual behavior (lo orcheihu), and it is considered like an innocuous horn (keren tam), for which the owner pays half-damages, whether the act occurs in the public domain or the injured party’s domain. Wolves and other predatory animals are typically forewarned for tearing apart prey, and for this they are considered mu'adim. The owner is liable for full damages if the act occurs in the injured party’s domain and exempt in the public domain. However, for trampling (derisa), which is not their usual behavior, they are considered keren tam (innocuous), (and the owner pays half-damages.) A snake is also considered mu'ad from the outset, and it is typical for it to cause harm in all forms. Therefore, in any situation where it causes damage, it is treated like regel, and the owner is exempt in the public domain but liable for full damages in the injured party’s domain. And so wrote my father, my master, the Rosh (Rabbeinu Asher) of blessed memory: All other domesticated animals have situations in which they are initially classified as innocuous (tam) and later become forewarned (mu'ad), such as with keren (goring). However, with shen (eating) and regel (trampling), they are considered forewarned from the outset." An innocuous attacking ox pays half-damages whether it caused damage in the public domain or in the domain of the injured party or in a jointly owned courtyard- regardless of the nature of their partnership, or in a courtyard that belongs to neither of them. In all cases, the owner is liable, and he is not exempt unless the injured party entered the property of the one causing the damage and was harmed there, since the owner can say: "Had you not entered my property, my ox would not have damaged you." However, if workers entered the property of the homeowner to request their wages and the homeowners ox gored them there or bit them, if the homeowner is not accustomed to going out to the marketplace—or even if he is accustomed to go out to the marketplace on occasion— Since he is not typically found in the market, the homeowner is liable for their damages, since they entered with justification. But if he is regularly found in the marketplace, he is exempt, as in that case, the workers entered without justification. And my father my master the Rosh (Rabbeinu Asher) of blessed memory wrote that in our times, it is the established custom for workers to enter the homeowner's property to claim their wages, and also, it is uncommon for a person to have money on hand in the marketplace to pay workers. Therefore, based on this custom, (the homeowner) is liable even if he is regularly found in the marketplace.