Wounded, crushed, or castrated males are forbidden to marry Israelite women but are allowed to marry converts and freed slaves. Even a priest who is a wounded or crushed male is allowed to marry. They are also allowed to offer sacrifices. Maimonides wrote that they are only permitted in offerings and in cases of doubt, but they are forbidden in the case of a mamzer, which is a biblical prohibition. It does not seem permissible because the permission for offerings is derived from the verse "No one who has any defect may come" (Leviticus 21:17), which means among the congregation of the Lord, meaning in Israel he may not enter, but in others, he may, and there is no distinction. Who is a crushed male? Anyone whose sinew was injured by a knife, sword, splinters, or even one of them, or the sinews to which the splinters are attached. Similarly, if the sinew is dislocated or the splinters or threads are cut, or even one of them, or even if one egg is punctured or missing, in any of these cases, if it was done by a person or even by himself due to illness, it is disqualified. However, if it was born that way from his mother's womb, or if it was done by Heaven, such as by thunder and the like, it is valid. Maimonides validates if it was done by illness, and Rashi invalidates it. Similarly, the opinion of R. Eliezer the son of R. Tzadok validates if one egg is removed, even by hand, provided that it was whole before it was removed, and also that what remains is from the right side. But if it was injured and then removed, it is disqualified, and the opinion of R. Alfas is not so. At the top of the sinew, there is flesh, and in its connection to the sinew, it is high and surrounds the sinew. It is called a crown. The circumference is not in a straight circle but in its upper part. The flesh extends towards the body, shortening and going underneath until close to the head of the sinew. This flesh is not considered like the rest of the sinew, so that even if it is completely cut and only the thread covering the majority of the crown remains, it is valid. Therefore, if it is punctured below the crown towards the ground, it is valid. If the crown itself is punctured, if the puncture is large enough that a layer of semen comes out, it is invalid. If not, it is valid. If the puncture is closed, it returns to its validity. If a hole is punctured at the top of the sinew, regarding the upper part of the sinew, where the crown extends towards the body, it is invalid. If it is cut from above the crown at an angle like a quill, it is valid, like a mersav which is removed from the hollow of the sinew and the remaining folds are invalid. Maimonides validates it, and Rashi explains according to the first explanation, and so too the opinion of R. Eliezer the son of R. Tzadok. Pouring water from two places instead of removing the water of the feet and the water of the seed is valid. If the place of the seed is closed and the water comes out in the place of the water of the feet, if it is from the mother's womb, it is automatically valid, and if it is by illness or defect, it is disqualified. Rabbi Eliezer wrote that in the case of a punctured sinew, it is disqualified, and the same with a closed place of the seed is not a definitive proof, but rather that it is about the offspring, meaning that the offspring is invalid, because the offspring born to him does not procreate, and it is definitely a mamzer, but it is valid to enter the congregation because it is not a crushed male, and the language does not imply otherwise. It is forbidden to injure the sinew or the splinters or the sinews dependent on them, whether in a person or in a living animal or bird, whether unclean or clean, whether on land or outside the land. It violates the prohibition stated in "and crush and cut off and tear and castrate," and "in your land you shall not do," and even if the one who crushes another who is crushed receives lashes, such as if one cut the sinew and another came and cut the splinters, or repaired them and another came and cut the threads of the eggs, or one dislocated the sinew and another came and repaired it, and another came and cut it, all are liable, whether in a person or in an animal, even though the last one did not crush but was crushed, and it is forbidden to drink a cup of semen even if one's intent is only for healing, and it is also forbidden to give it to an animal to drink, and a woman is allowed to drink it so that she does not conceive. Maimonides wrote, "If he forced a person and caused a dog or other animals to mate with him until he became a crushed male or he immersed him in water or in snow until the organs of procreation were removed from him, he is not punished until he crushes with his hands, and it is proper to strike him with rebelliousness. Therefore, it is forbidden to tell a non-Jew to mate with a Jewish animal, but if he does it of his own accord, it is allowed. Specifically, there is no nakedness in the matter. But if a Jew incites him to do so or even if he did not incite him, and the non-Jew knows and intends for the benefit of Israel, it is forbidden, and he is fined for selling it to another, and even if he sells it to his minor son, it is enough, and he is not fined for selling it for slaughter, but he can sell it even for plowing. Quien ha sido herido en sus genitales de manera tal que es imposible que pueda engendrar hijos, está prohibido tener relaciones sexuales con una israelita, pero puede hacerlo con una conversa o una liberada. Incluso un sacerdote que haya sido herido de esta manera también está permitido casarse con una conversa o liberada, pero Maimónides escribió que solo está permitido en el caso de una liberada y en casos de duda, pero está prohibido en el caso de una mamzeret, que es una prohibición de la Torá. No parece ser así, ya que el permiso para la entrega se deriva del versículo "No entrará mamzer en la congregación del Señor", lo que significa que no entrará en Israel, pero en otras naciones está permitido. No hay distinción sobre qué se considera "herido de tal manera" - cualquier lesión en los testículos causada por un cuchillo, una espada, los dientes, o incluso si uno de ellos, o los conductos en los que se suspenden los testículos, es cortado o si los conductos se rompen o se cortan, o incluso si se perfora un testículo o falta uno, cualquiera de estos casos, si es causado por la mano del hombre o incluso por sí mismo a través de una enfermedad, es inválido. Pero si nació así de su madre o si fue causado por la mano del Cielo, como un rayo u otro fenómeno, es válido. Maimónides considera válido el que es causado por una enfermedad, mientras que Rashi lo considera inválido. También la opinión del Rabino Abraham ben David y Rabino Tam es que es válido si se extrae un huevo, incluso si fue extraído por una persona, siempre que estuviera entero antes de ser extraído y que el resto sea el derecho, pero si fue herido y luego se extrae, es inválido. Y no está de acuerdo con la opinión de Rab Alfas. En la cabeza del testículo hay carne y en su conexión al testículo es alto y rodea al testículo y se llama corona y ese perímetro no es un círculo perfecto, sino que está en su parte superior que se extiende desde la corona hacia el cuerpo y se acorta y va por debajo de ella hasta cerca de la cabeza del testículo, y esa carne no se considera como el resto del testículo, ya que incluso si se corta por completo y solo queda el hilo que rodea la mayor parte de la corona hacia el cuerpo, es válido. Por lo tanto, si se perfora por debajo de la corona hacia la tierra es válido. Si se perfora la corona misma, si la perforación es grande y sale semen de allí, es inválido. Si no, es válido. Si se sella el agujero, vuelve a ser válido. Si se perfora un agujero largo en la parte superior del testículo en un ángulo inclinado como un trompeta es válido. Como una raíz de rábano que se cortó, su cáscara está invalidada pero las paredes están inválidas. Maimónides permite esto, pero Rashi lo explica según la primera opinión, y así también Rabino Abraham ben David. Quien arroja agua desde dos lugares en lugar de arrojarla de sus pies, es válido. Si se sella el lugar del semen y sale en lugar de lasalida de la orina, si es de su madre es válido y si es causado por una enfermedad o un defecto es inválido. El Rabino Eliezer escribió que si se perfora el testículo es inválido, y también si se sella el lugar del semen no significa que está invalído, sino que significa que no da fruto, y está prohibido decirle a un no judío que castrar un animal judío, pero si lo hace por sí mismo, está permitido siempre que no haya ninguna astucia en el asunto. Pero si ha engañado a un israelita en este asunto, o incluso si no ha engañado a un israelita pero el no judío lo hizo con intenciones en favor de un israelita, está prohibido y se le castiga con la muerte, aunque se le puede vender a otro, e incluso si se lo vende a su hijo pequeño es suficiente, y no se le puede vender para su sacrificio, pero puede venderlo incluso en secreto.