Question to the Rosh: Reuven has an IOU from Shimon for 3000, half of which can be collected three months hence, and the other half six months hence. And Reuven perishes within this timeframe, and his heirs claim the monies from Shimon. Shimon claims that he already repaid Reuven before his death, and shows a witnessed document to that effect, and asks that the heirs return to him the IOU. The heirs make an assessment that the witnesses are false and ask the Bet Din to investigate the matter. In support of their claim, the heirs point out there were only 15 days between the date of the IOU and the supposed date of repayment which is not sufficiently long for the lender (Reuven) to say that he lost the IOU and that he will write a receipt. So why was the IOU not returned to be destroyed? In addition, the time had not yet been reached for any repayments, scheduled to take place after the death of the lender! Also all of Reuven's family testify that they did not know or hear of any repayment at all, and if it were true, they would have known the debt was repaid, since all of Reuven's financial transactions went though them. Answer: It's true that that the repayment witnesses need to be investigated by experts, to clarify all the issues raised. And if after investigating their testimony stands, there is no power in these issues to disqualify the witnesses, even though when a person claims that he repaid a debt early he is not believed, if there are witnesses to support the early repayment claim then the witnesses are not dismissed just because it is not normal to repay a debt early. And even though the date on the IOU was within 15 days of the repayment it is possible that the IOU was somewhere else, and Reuven needed the money and Shimon did him a favour and paid him without the returning of the IOU, but receiving a receipt instead. And about Reuven's family not knowing about the repayment is not proof (of non-repayment) as heaven knows their hearts if they are honest or not, and we cannot dismiss the witnesses based on this claim. And if these witnesses in front of a G-d fearing and expert court, it is possible that the truth will be revealed through proper investigation, and if after all investigations, the court believes the witnesses the heirs have to return the money to the lender.