32. The mitzvah of tefillin is that he should write the four sections, which are: ‘Consecrate to me every firstborn’ up to ‘At its set time from year to year.’ ‘And when he has brought you out’ up to ‘With a mighty hand the Lord freed us from Egypt.’ And the section of the Shema up to ‘And in your gates.’ And the section ‘If, then, you keep’ up to ‘Over the earth.’ Each and every one on its own parchment. He should write them boldly, and in an ink whose writing is astonishing, so that every single letter is surrounded by ornamented parchment as is appropriate, and not lacking even the tail of a yud. It is required that he write with his right, even if he is ambidextrous. And if he is left handed, his left hand is his ‘right.’ It is not necessary to make guidelines on every single line, but if he wishes to do so he has permission. But someone who does not know how to make a straight line, it is well for him to make guidelines to make the inscription straight. He should write on parchment which is manufactured for the purpose of tefillin, on the flesh side. Had he not written on the parchment, or had it not been manufactured for that purpose, or had he written on the hair side, it is unusable. If a gentile had manufactured it: The Rambam wrote that it is unusable, even if a Jew told him to make if for that purpose. And my lord, my father the Rosh, may his memory be a blessing, considered it kosher if a Jew stands over him and said to him ‘Make it for the purpose of tefillin.’ The parchment may be of the hide of a domesticated animal, a wild animal or a ritually pure fowl, even from those of a carcass or a killed animal, but not from the hide of a ritually impure domesticated animal, wild animal or fowl, nor from a fish, even if it is ritually pure. It should be complete, where it should have no perforation, for the ink will not pass over it. But if after it was written, it was perforated inside the letter, it is kosher. Some say that even if its entire interior was perforated. In the Yerushalmi the meaning is that its interior also requires being surrounded by parchment. Therefore, if the entire interior is perforated, it is unusable. If the interior leg of a hay is perforated, even if all that remains of it is an infinitesimal part, it is kosher. If the right leg was perforated: If a full small letter remains, it is kosher, and if not, it is unusable. If one of the letters is cut off: If a child neither wise nor foolish knows how to read it, it is kosher, and if not, unusable. It is written in the Smak that if one drop of ink fell prior to the letter being finished, and the letter was not recognizable and afterward the ink was lifted up, or was not surrounded by parchment from the outset, it is unusable, because it is like engraving. But if it was already made according to its correction, and ink fell on it, he can lift it up. And my lord, my father the Rosh, may his memory be a blessing, declared unusable also in this instance, and so did he write in Sefer Terumah. He wrote further that if he made a resh in the form of a dalet, that he cannot scrape it off and correct it, for it is like engraving. Likewise, my lord, my father the Rosh, may his memory be a blessing, wrote: In any case, an open letter whose opening attached itself and became closed, it is ineffectual to scrape off the adherence and to open it. But concerning an adherence between one letter and another, he wrote that it is permissible. At the beginning of the writing, he should say ‘I am writing for the sake of the sanctity of tefillin;’ it is not sufficient that he thinks so in his heart. In addition to this, he needs to write all of the instances of God’s name for the sake of the sanctification of the name. It is required to be punctilious about deficiencies and superfluities, for if he subtracted or added one letter to them, it is unusable, resulting in the one putting them on reciting a vain blessing each day, and is also living every day without the mitzvah of tefillin, resulting in great punishment for the scribe. Subsequently, one engaged in the writing of tefillin and their correction needs to be exceedingly God fearing and apprehensive about speaking God’s name, may he be blessed. After writing it, he shall read every single section well, with careful thought and precision, two and three times. He should go back and read it before he puts it into its casing. If he added one letter, it has a correction, for he may scrape it off. But if he omitted, it does not have a correction, for one does not revise tefillin, for if so, they would be written not according to their (proper) order, and they stated in the Mekhilta ‘Had he written them not according to their order, he should hide them away. He needs to take great care in the correction of the body of the letters, that no letter touches its neighbor. And if it touches, he should scrape it off and separate them one from the other. It is required that he write out of a written copy, and he should recite every single letter before he writes it. However, since the scribes are accustomed to these four sections, and they are fluent in them, they may write them by memory, not out of a written copy. And he wrote in the Smak that it is necessary to leave blank space above and blank space below sufficient for binding rings, which is half a fingernail. My lord, my father the Rosh, may his memory be a blessing, wrote that it is only necessary to leave blank space above sufficient for the lamed’s roof, and below in the measure of the length of the kaf and the nun. But at their beginning and at their end, it is not necessary to leave any at all. He should make equal lines, so that one should not be indented and another over the line ending, and he should not write three letters past the end of the line. He should make each of its sections open, which is where he leaves a blank space at the end of the line sufficient for three words of three letters, or at the beginning, except for the final section, which he should make closed. He should make four chambers from one skin, from the skin of a ritually pure domesticated animal, wild animal or fowl, even if from those of a carcass or one torn apart. The Rambam wrote that their manufacture need not be for this purpose. But my lord, my father the Rosh, may his memory be a blessing, wrote that it is required that their manufacture be for this purpose, and so too wrote Rav Kohen Tzedek. In Sefer Haterumah (in some editions: Sefer Mitzvot), it is written that he can make them from parchment, for that is also called skin, or from an embryo skin, despite the fact that it is considered like flesh as concerns ritual impurity. They should be square and black. But if he made them in another color, they are kosher, but the essence of their mitzvah is to be black. A crevice should be recognizable between one chamber and another. Thus shall he make it: He shall take a wooden frame, which is totally square, whose diagonal length is equal in length and width. The measure is not explicit in the Talmud concerning the length and width of the chamber cube, but rather in the book "Shimosha Rabba" [a Gaonic text] it wrote that the four chambers need be two fingers by two fingers. This is customary only when he makes the length and the width of the chambers without measure, as well as their height. He carves three crevices in the frame whose depth is sufficient for the width of the sections, in order that the crevice reach between one chamber and another up to the area of the sewing. He takes thin hide from a ritually pure domesticated beast or wild animal, softening and boiling it in water, and placing it on the frame and forcing it into the crevices until it dries and hardens. While it is still wet, he makes the form of a shin protrude from the flaps of hide, one from its right and one from its left. That of its left is the right of one reading, meaning one standing opposite it shall make four crowns; that of its right, he shall make three crowns. After the hide has dried and hardened well on the frame, he removes the frame and it will remain in the form of four chambers. He should stretch the shins downward until it reaches the shin crevice, and its bottom until the area of the sewing. He shall place the length of the hide of the frame from one side and double it over on the chambers and sew it, with the hide remaining from the three sides of the chamber, crossing from every side; it is called titura. With that hide, whose length he stretched from one side, he shall make the ma’abarata. How? He shall cut the ma’abarata from two sides, so that its width is not like that of the titura, in order that the cube of the titura be recognizable. Through that ma’abarata passes the strap, and on that account it is called a ma’abarata, for the strap passes through it from this side to that. And some take thick, strong hide, double it over into two, and cut the upper fold a square perforation, in accordance with the square of the chambers, and press the chambers into it. That thin hide of the chambers which remains he stretches from the four directions this way and that between two of the folds of thick hide and sews it with them; it is called a titura. From that thick hide, one also makes the ma’abarata. It is well to make it so, for on account of it being thick and strong the tefillin compartment will endure; he sews it and squares it off. Concerning the tefillin of the hand, he should make a single frame of wood whose length is like the width of the sections, and take thin hide from a ritually pure domesticated beast or wild animal, manufactured for that purpose, softening it and boiling it in water, and placing it on the frame until it is dried. Afterward, he removes the frame and the finished chamber remains, and he makes the titura and ma’abarata in the same manner he made that of the head. He should roll each section from its end to its beginning. He should wrap around every section the hair of a ritually pure domesticated animal. It is acceptable to wrap a small parchment around each section before one puts it into the chamber; it appears also in the book "Shimosha Rabba" [a Gaonic text] that was mentioned earlier. The Rambam declared it unusable if he wrapped parchment or a cover around it, but it did not appear so to my lord, my father the Rosh, may his memory be a blessing, to so disqualify them. He shall place every single section in a chamber so that it is upright, in the same manner that one stands a Torah scroll in an ark. But if he wrote all four sections on one parchment, they are kosher, even if there is no space between them. It is only that there should be thread or string between each and every chamber. As for that of the hand, he writes the four sections which he wrote for that of the head on one parchment, and rolls them from their end to their beginning, and wraps a hair on them and puts them in their chambers. But if he wrote them on four parchments and placed them in one chamber, he has fulfilled his obligation and does not need to join them together. If he plated the chambers with gold or made them from the hide of a ritually unfit domesticated animal, it is unusable. After he has placed them into the chambers he doubles over the hide whose length he placed on one side to make the titura and the ma’abarata as has been explained. After he has squared off the titura, its length like its width, he shall sew it with the sinew of a ritually pure animal with a square needle. He shall make three stitches on every side, so that there will be, all told, twelve stitches. The stitching thread should wind around from two directions. He shall cross over the stitching thread between each and every chamber. If the stitching breaks in three places, he needs to sew another time. Afterwards, he inserts the strap through the ma’abarata and makes a tefillin knot which will be the measure of the straps around his head. He should do so there, in the manner where it will sit in its place, as I have explained above. He should make it in the form of a dalet, and so too shall he do for that of the hand. He shall double over the hide to make the titura and the ma’abarata and make it square, its stitching and with its diagonal, with the number of threads three to each side, as with that of the head. He shall pass the strap through the ma’abarata and make a knot so that the strap passes through it to draw it together on his arm. At the end of the strap, at the knot, he should make a small knot in the form of a yud to complete the letters of shadai, with the shin which are on the chambers of the head and the dalet of the knot. Some cut the end of the strap at the knot in the form of a yud. It is customary to cover over the chamber of the hand over the thickness of the arm. One does so because the tefillin of the hand are high and narrow, and one puts its under the clothing and they move about under the clothing and become ruined; therefore, we are accustomed to pass the strap over them to strengthen them.