And afterwards the prayer leader stops the prayer in order to blow according to the order of the blessings (of the additional prayer). For it is learned (Mishnah Rosh Hashanah 4:9), "One who recited the blessings, and a shofar became available to him afterward, he blows a tekiah, a teruah, and a tekiah." The explanation is that he prayed the nine blessings [of the additional prayer] but he did not have a shofar, and afterwards he chanced upon a shofar. And we make a precise inference: The reason is that he did not have a shofar. However if he has a shofar, he blows according to the order of the blessings. And this is determined to be only in public. But an individual - even if he has a shofar - does not interrupt the blessings in order to blow. Hence the prayer leader stops the prayer and we blow tekiah, shevarim-teruah, tekiah once during [the blessing of] Kingship (Malkhiot); tekiah, shevarim, tekiah during the blessing of memory (zikhronot); and tekiah, teruah, tekiah during the blessing of shofar (shofarot). But it would have been fitting to blow tekiah, shevarim-teruah, tekiah; tekiah, shevarim, tekiah; tekiah, teruah, tekiah once for Kingship, and likewise for memory and likewise for shofar. And so is it found in the Arukh, who wrote, "And those who are stringent blow thirty [calls] (a full set, as just enumerated) when they are sitting, thirty during the silent prayer and thirty according to the order [of the blessings], corresponding to the hundred yelps of Sisera's mother. And those [extra] ten (needed to bring it to one hundred) are when they finish all of the prayers - a single blowing of ten, tekiah, shevarim-teruah, tekiah; tekiah, shevarim, tekiah; tekiah, teruah, tekiah. So there are one hundred." But Rabbenu Tam instituted the blowing of tekiah, shevarim-teruah, tekiah for Kingship, and likewise for memory and likewise for shofar. And there are still other customs, but the main [practice] is as I have written. And likewise did Rav Alfas (Rif) write, "It would be correct that they blow according to the order of the blessings in the same way that they blow when they are sitting. However since [those] blessings do not impinge upon the blasts, they have [already] fulfilled their obligation with those that they blew when they were sitting. So it is sufficient for them to blow tekiah, shevarim-teruah, tekiah; tekiah, shevarim, tekiah; tekiah, teruah, tekiah once, in order not to inconvenience the congregation. And this is the custom in all of the world and in the two yeshivot." If one speaks between the blasts when sitting, or after he finished those of sitting but before those of standing - which are according to the order of the blessings - he does not have to go back and [repeat] the blessing [over the commandment of the shofar]. However we should rebuke one who speaks - whether it is the one blowing, or whether it is [a member of] the congregation, who does not recite the blessing, "to blow," but rather, "to hear the sound of the shofar," and who recites the blessing for the whole congregation.