6. He should recite the blessing "He who created...empty cavities (hallulim hallulim)" But he should not say ‘empty cavities’ (hal’lim hal’lim) as an allusion to the subject of ‘empty cavities’ (hallulim hallulim) which counts 248, like the sum of a person’s parts. (See in chapter 6 of Oholot, where he enumerates all 248 of a person's parts.) It is impossible to exist, as it is (stated) in tractate Niddah: ‘The entire time that an infant is in its mother’s womb, its navel is open and its mouth is closed; when it emerges into the world’s air, the closed opens and the open closes, for where it not so, it is impossible to endure. It is a wonder to create such as is (stated) in the midrash: ‘For you are great, creating wonders: A person is like a water skin full of air; should a person make a perforation in a water skin the size of a needle point, the air comes out. Yet a person is full of openings, yet his spirit is kept within him, which is ‘performing wonders.’ But if he goes immediately to the synagogue and wishes to delay reciting ‘concerning hand washing’ and until he comes to the synagogue, when he will put them in order with the rest of the blessings, he has the authority. Indeed, if he should immediately recite the blessing ‘concerning hand washing’ and ‘He who created,’ there are those who say that he needs to say immediately after it ‘The soul, my God’ until ‘Blessed are you, Lord, who returns souls to lifeless bodies,’ since it is in tandem with the blessing ‘He who created,’ and subsequently does not open with ‘Blessed.’ But there are those who say that he does not need to say (it) immediately after it; the reason that it does not open with ‘Blessed’ because it is a thanksgiving blessing, like the rain blessing, which does not open with ‘Blessed.’ This is logical, for it is proven in (tractate) Brakhot, in the chapter (entitled) ‘One who sees,’ which says ‘When he awakens from his sleep, let him say ‘The soul, my God;’ later it says thus: ‘When he washes his hands let him say ‘concerning hand washing.’’ Thus did Rambam order them, may his memory be a blessing.