Between the sections [of Shema and its blessings], one may offer a greeting to an honored person on account of his honor, and respond to a greeting from any person. And in the middle — even in the middle of the verse — one may offer a greeting to someone on account of fear and respond on account of honor. And Rashi explained, "on account of fear": someone who he is afraid may kill him. And so too did Rambam, may his memory be blessed, write, "under duress." But this does not appear correct to my master, my father [Rosh], may his memory be blessed. As behold it is an obvious thing that nothing stands before the preservation of life. So he explained "on account of fear," to be the fear of his father, or his teacher. As it is written: A person must fear his mother and father (Leviticus 19:3); and it is learned (Avot 4:12), "and the fear of your teacher [should be] as the fear of Heaven." And so too did the Geonim explain it. And the decisors disagreed concerning interrupting kaddish, kedushah, and barkhu: Some say even though one may offer a greeting on account of fear and respond on account of honor, one should not interrupt [in this case]. As since he is occupied with the praise of the Omnipresent, he should not interrupt for the sake of praising another. But the [author of] Sefer Mitzvot Katan [Smak] wrote, "And no matter the place in our recitation of Shema], we answer kaddish, kedushah, and amen [which is at the end of the blessing in the amidah standing prayer,] 'the holy God,' and amen [which is at the end of the blessing,] 'who hears prayer.'" And some say that one may interrupt for everything, even in the middle [of a section], since it is no worse than [being allowed] to offer a greeting on account of honor and to respond on account of fear. And my teacher, my father, may his memory be blessed, agreed with this. The [author] of the Manhig wrote, "Someone reciting the Shema while the cantor calls him to get up for the Torah must get up to read from the Torah for the Torah's honor, based on an a fortiori argument [kal vechomer] from the honor of creatures and their fear, since he interrupts because of them. And these are between the sections: Between the first blessing and the second; between the second and "Shema"; between "Shema" and "And it shall come to pass if you listen"; between "And it shall come to pass if you listen" and "And the Lord spoke." And between "And the Lord spoke" and "True and firm," he may not interrupt. (Mishnah Berakhot 2:2) And Rambam, may his memory be blessed, wrote, "One should not interrupt like the [standard] law of between one section and another section, but rather like in the middle of a section to offer a greeting on account of fear and to respond on account of honor." But RI explained "he may not interrupt" at all, even like in the middle of a section. Rather one should say, "I am the Lord, Your God, True," as it is stated: But the Lord is the true God (Jeremiah 10:10). And then he may interrupt like in the middle of a section. And if one said, "I am the Lord, Your God, True," in order not to interrupt and waited lengthily afterward, he does not need to go back and say, "True." And he finishes the whole blessing and concludes, "Blessed are You, Lord [...] who redeemed Israel." Then he says, "Amen," after his blessings — even an individual — since it is the end of a series of blessings. Then, he begins to pray immediately, and he does not interrupt. But if something beyond his control occurred, so that he did not don tefillin before the recitation of Shema and he now has a chance to don them, he may interrupt to recite the blessing and don them, so that he can pray with tefillin. However, he may not interrupt to recite a blessing over a prayer shawl [talit] to wear it. And [the Sages] ordained to say, "True and firm [...]" in the morning prayers over the kindness that the Holy One, blessed be He, did for us, as He redeemed us and brought us through the sea and drowned our oppressors in it. And it is found in the Jerusalem Talmud, "In 'True and firm,' one must mention the exodus from Egypt, [God's] kingship, the splitting of the Red Sea, the plague of the firstborn, and the Rock of Israel and its Redeemer. And they ordained to say, "True and faithful [...] in the evening prayers over the future redemption, as we believe and hope that He will fulfill His promise and redeem us soon. Or also [another possibility] is that it is over, when we deposit our souls into His hand every night, we trust in Him, that He will return the deposit to us. And this is [the meaning of] that which Rabbah bar Chinnanah Saba said in the name of Rav (Berakhot 12a:23), "Anyone who did not say 'True and firm' in the morning prayers and 'True and Faithful' in the evening prayers has not fulfilled his obligation." And [its] explanation is [that he] "has not fulfilled his obligation," as it is ordained. However, he has fulfilled it, since blessings do not impede [on the fulfillment of the commandments to which the blessings are assigned].