The lung has two membranes. If one was punctured but not the other, it is kosher. It is kosher until both membranes are punctured. Even if the entire outer membrane was peeled off it is kosher. However it would require checking (the lower membrane for a hole). The Rashba writes that if both are punctured but the punctures are not facing one another it is kosher. If both membranes were punctured and membrane grew back over the punctures and sealed them, it is still considered a treifah. A lung from which a sound emanates when the lungs are inflated: if one knows from where the sound is emanating one can place a piece of straw or a feather on that place and inflate the lungs. If the straw or feather pops out its a treifah and if not it is kosher. If one does not know from where the sound emanates one puts the entire lung in a vessel that contains water and blows into the lung. If the water bubbles it is a treifah. If it does not it is kosher. The water should be neither cold nor hot but tepid, like the tepidness of water in the summer that has stood indoors a bit after it was drawn and warmed slightly from the heat of the air. If the hole was found in a place where it was possible that the hole was made after the the shechittah, such as in a place that the butcher has passed his hand or has pulled with force or if a wolf took the lung and returned it pierced, we assume leniently and it is kosher. So too if worms were found on the lungs that punctured them and it is unclear whether the lungs were punctured before shechittah or after shechittah, it is kosher. If there is nothing to rely on and it is unclear if the lungs were punctured while alive or not, one makes another hole in front of him; if the holes are similar it is kosher, since just as this hole was made after shechittah so too was the first hole, and if they are not similar it is treifah, since it is certain that the first hole was made before shechittah. We compare holes in lungs from the large lobes to large lobes and small lobes to small lobes but not from large lobes to small lobes or small lobes to large lobes. Rav Alfasi explains that one can compare from one lung to another lung as long as it comes from a similar animal; if it is a large animal, then compare to lungs of a large animal, and if it is a small animal then compare to the lungs of a small animal. Rashi explains that one does not compare the lungs of one animal to the lungs of another animal and even within the same animal one may only compare the small lobes to other small lobes and a large lobe to the other large lobe, but not a large lobe to a small lobe or a small lobe to a large lobe. This is also the conclusion of my father the Rosh. If one of the bronchi were punctured that was in front of the other bronchus such as in the place where they separate from one another and there is no meat between them, it is treifah, as the other bronchus is hard and does not protect it. If the bronchus was punctured going into the meat of the lung, the meat protects the bronchus and its meat. The Rambam says that if one of the bronchi are punctured, even into the other bronchus, it is treifah, and it would appear from his language that all the more so if it was punctured into the meat of the lung, and this doesn't make sense. If some meat of the lung is missing but the membrane is intact it is kosher. Therefore if some of the meat has rotted from within and is missing, even if the area that is empty is large, until the missing area can hold a reviis of volume it is kosher. If the inside of the lungs have rotted and liquefied it is kosher, so long as all the bronchi still exist. Rav Alfasi explains that this is true specifically when character of the liquid is pure, but if the liquid is murky or putrid it is treifah. So too writes the Rambam. My father, the Rosh, wrote that it is kosher even if the liquid is murky or putrid. How does one check if all the lungs bronchi still exist (intact)? One brings a bowl that is covered with a limb that is white and one punctures it and pours into it; if one sees inside it an outline similar to blood vessels that are white, it is certain that they are from the bronchi and it is treifah and if not it is kosher. The Rambam writes that if the bronchi are separated from the body of the lung, even though they are not punctured, it is as if it is missing from the count of the lobes (and is treifah). The Baal HaIttur writes that it is kosher since the tissue is still intact, even though it is damaged, and this makes sense. A lung that happened to go through an event in which the lung was inflated and there remains a portion that is sealed that does not rise even when the lung is inflated, one rips